CP-XIV State Round Ubuntu 18 README

Please read the entire README thoroughly before modifying anything on this computer.
Unique Identifier

If you have not yet entered a valid Unique Identifier, please do so immediately by double clicking on the "CyberPatriot Set Unique Identifier" icon on the desktop. If you do not enter a valid Unique Identifier this VM may stop functioning after a short period of time.
Forensics Questions

If there are "Forensics Questions" on your Desktop, you will receive points for answering these questions correctly. Valid (scored) "Forensics Questions" will only be located directly on your Desktop. Please read all "Forensics Questions" thoroughly before modifying this computer, as you may change something that prevents you from answering the question correctly.
Competition Scenario

This company's security policies require that all user accounts be password protected. Employees are required to choose secure passwords, however this policy may not be currently enforced on this computer. The presence of any non-work related media files and "hacking tools" on any computers is strictly prohibited. This company currently does not use any centralized maintenance or polling tools to manage their IT equipment. This computer is for official business use only by authorized users.
Ubuntu 18.04

It is company policy to use only Ubuntu 18.04 on this computer. It is also company policy to use only the latest, official, stable Ubuntu 18.04 packages available for required software and services on this computer. Packages should be installed and managed by "apt". The display manager should remain set to GDM3.

Management has decided that the default web browser for all users on this computer should be the latest stable version of Firefox. The VICE Commodore 64 emulators used are for business purposes and should not be removed. Company policy is to never let users log in as root. If administrators need to run commands as root, they are required to use the "sudo" command.

The FTP server on this machine must remain operational. The FTP directories and files are located at /srv/ftp. The files on the FTP server are business-related and should not be removed. The server should be configured to allow users to download files but not upload or modify files on the server. It should only allow anonymous connections. In addition, management would like to explicitly deny any ability to login to the FTP server as root. This should be configured using the current userlist file.
Critical Services:

    FTP Server (vsftpd)

Authorized Administrators and Users

Authorized Administrators:
chowe (you)
	password: SpaceB!k3
dclark
	password: Hardware4Ever
gclark
	password: Symphonic
jmacmillan
	password: Move2Close

Authorized Users:
jbosworth
yoyo
lev
carl
bodie
wonderboy
arki
trendon
hclark
rray
mbesaw
jparker
pingram
dgould

Competition Guidelines

    In order to provide a better competition experience, you are NOT required to change the password of the primary, auto-login, user account. Changing the password of a user that is set to automatically log in may lock you out of your computer.
    Authorized administrator passwords were correct the last time you did a password audit, but are not guaranteed to be currently accurate.
    Do not stop or disable the CCS Client service or process.
    Do not remove any authorized users or their home directories.
    The time zone of this image is set to UTC. Please do not change the time zone, date, or time on this image.
    You can view your current scoring report by double-clicking the "CyberPatriot Scoring Report" desktop icon.
    JavaScript is required for some error messages that appear on the "CyberPatriot Scoring Report." To ensure that you only receive correct error messages, please do not disable JavaScript.
    Some security settings may prevent the Stop Scoring application from running. If this happens, the safest way to stop scoring is to suspend the virtual machine. You should NOT power on the VM again before deleting.

The CyberPatriot Competition System is the property of the Air Force Association and the University of Texas at San Antonio.

All rights reserved. 


Forensics Question 2 correct - 6 pts<br>
Forensics Question 3 correct - 6 pts<br>
User trendon is not an administrator - 2 pts<br>
Root password is no longer blank - 3 pts<br>
Address space layout randomization enabled - 2 pts<br>
Kernel pointers hidden from unprivileged users - 2 pts<br>
Uncomplicated Firewall (UFW) protection has been enabled - 2 pts<br>
Nginx service has been disabled or removed - 2 pts<br>
Squid proxy service has been disabled or removed - 2 pts<br>
The system automatically checks for updates daily - 1 pts<br>
Software update source includes security updates - 2 pts<br>
Vsftpd has been updated - 2 pts<br>
Prohibited OGG music files removed - 2 pts<br>
Prohibited software doona removed - 2 pts<br>
Prohibited software proxychains removed - 2 pts<br>
Prohibited software xprobe removed - 2 pts<br>
FTP write commands are disabled - 2 pts<br>
